# Graph-Notes
<p>Directed graph editor for note-taking and planning. Written in React and Django.</p>
<div>Our source code is on Google Colab and is available in our <a href="https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1lMvRGHcWoixa6oICrDUM6Q6Y3FqNElOk?usp=sharing">Google Drive</a>, which also contains our <a href="https://youtu.be/_kpnJZonmmo">video summary</a> for the project.</div>

## Introduction
<div><b>Problem:</b> Our goal was to create a classifier that could identify different styles of animation, those being 2D animation, 3D animation, and Stop Motion Animation. Animation is built on the earliest concepts of film - stringing images together in rapid succession to create the illusion of a moving picture. From the first Zoetropes to modern computer rendered 3D animation, the field has advanced a great deal. Along the way, several different types of animation have been developed and even combined with live action film (<i>Who Framed Roger Rabbit?</i>). These distinct styles can easily be identified by the human eye, so our goal is to see if we can train a network to recognize them. We decided to focus on 3 styles of animation: 2D, 3D, and Stop Motion. While these don't by any means cover the entire field of animation, they do cover a vast majority of it. </div>
<p></p>
<div><b>2D Animation:</b> This animation style is the kind that we generally associate with older Disney Films like <i>Beauty and the Beast</i> (1991), <i>The Lion King</i> (1994), and <i>Mulan</i> (1998). 2D Animation is generally achieved through frame by frame hand drawings that are strung together in succession.</div>
<div><b>3D Animation:</b> This animation style is newer than 2D, and relies more on computer technology. This style can be found in films like <i>Toy Story</i> (1995), <i>Tangled</i> (2010), and <i>Frozen</i> (2013). Computer programs are used to model, rig, and render images to achieve this style.</div>
<div><b>Stop Motion Animation:</b> This animation style is achieved through clay models that are placed, modeled, and photographed to get each frame. This style can be seen in <i>Corpse Bride</i> (2005), <i>Coraline</i> (2009), and <i>The Nightmare Before Christmas</i> (1993).</div>
<p></p>


### Approach
<p>
  Initially, our goal was to train a neural network to determine the title of a movie based on an image input of a movie still. We had planned to build a neural network from scratch and train it on a wide variety of non-animated movie stills from <a href="https://www.moviestillsdb.com/">moviestillsdb</a> to see whether our model could recognize the styles and color patterns that a specific movie uses. However, the movie stills images were too high in resolution, typically at around 6240 x 4160 pixels, and after resizing the images down to 128 x 128, the images were too distorted and blurry to be distinguishable from each other. So, we changed our objective, and we instead built two neural network models that learned to classify animated movie stills as 2D-animated, 3D animated, or stop motion animation. We took images from <a href="https://film-grab.com/category/genre/animation/">here</a> and <a href="https://screencapped.net/board/forumdisplay.php?fid=537">here</a>, and we resized each image down to 128 x 256 pixels, which was a small enough size to be efficiently trained on, yet still maintained close to its original dimensions. Our dataset has over 3000 images spread over 45 different movies and 3 classes. We divided the data into training + validation and test datasets using a random 90/10 split, and we then divided the training + validation dataset into training and validation sets using a random 90/10 split. 
</p>
